# PgenePapers <sub>beta</sub>
This Shiny app is made by Yan Zhang. Data tables are generated by Shenglong Tan.  
This app is under development and refinement.

### What is PgenePapers?

**PgenePapers** is a novel database and search tools of reported regulatory pseudogenes. We used all the currently available publications related to pseudogenes in PubMed, and mined the pseudogene-coding gene regulation pairs. We further assigned the pairs into different categories based on pseudogenes’ functional roles. We anticipate this study to set a foundation of systematically annotating regulatory pseudogenes, and facilitate future methodology development and experimental studies of pseudogene functions.

### Run the Shiny app of PgenePapers (beta version)

To run the app locally, you need to install R on your computer, and then install the **markdown**, **networkD3**, **DT** and **shiny** packages in R.  

Run the app in R:

```R
if (!require('markdown')) install.packages("markdown")
if (!require('networkD3')) install.packages("networkD3")
if (!require('DT')) install.packages("DT")
if (!require('shiny')) install.packages("shiny")
shiny::runGitHub("shiny_PgenePapers", "yanzhang01", subdir = "Beta_version")
```

Note: Sometimes "Downloading https://..." does not work if your computer is under a very restricted firewall: status was 'Couldn't connect to server'. Then you may switch to another secure network temporarily.  

### Database and Search Tools:

- **Database Version** - The publication titles and abstracts that we used were downloaded from PubMed on Oct. 27, 2017. The PubMed text file can be accessed at [link](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yanzhang01/shiny_PgenePapers/master/Beta_version/pubmed_result.txt), downloadable at [link](https://github.com/yanzhang01/shiny_PgenePapers/blob/master/Beta_version/pubmed_result.txt).

- **Web Application Version** - Beta version.

- **Pseudogene-Gene-Role Table** - Displays manually curated (based on computer generated results) pseudogene-coding gene regulation pairs, supports keyword search in the fly.

  Note: The keywords in **_Coding Gene Name_** starting with an * are not genes, but other associated risk, such as gastric cancer (GC) risk.
  
- **All Papers** - Displays manually curated (based on computer generated results) pseudogene-coding gene regulation pairs, provides text from publications as a reference, supports keyword search in the fly. 

  Note: The keywords in **_Coding Gene Name_** starting with an * are not genes, but other associated risk, such as gastric cancer (GC) risk.

- **Graph Presentation and Data Download** - The users can select one or all pseudogene(s) or genes (s) from the input lists, and generate an association network in the fly. Users can also download the filtered data corresponding to the graph. 

  Note: The keywords in **_Coding Gene Name_** starting with an * are not genes, but other associated risks, such as gastric cancer (GC) risk.

- **Readme** - You are here.

---
_Developed and maintained by the **Zhang Lab of Computational Genomics and Proteomics @ The Ohio State University.**_
[link](https://sites.google.com/site/yanzhanglab/lab-members)
