1. PLoS One. 2017 Oct 24;12(10):e0186788. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0186788.
eCollection 2017.

Chloroplast genomes of Lilium lancifolium, L. amabile, L. callosum, and L.
philadelphicum: Molecular characterization and their use in phylogenetic analysis
in the genus Lilium and other allied genera in the order Liliales.

Kim JH(1), Lee SI(2)(3), Kim BR(1), Choi IY(4), Ryser P(5), Kim NS(2)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Horticulture, Kangwon National University, Chuncheon, Korea.
(2)Institute of Bioscience and Biomedical Sciences, Kangwon National University, 
Chuncheon, Korea.
(3)Advanced Radiation Technology Institute, Korea Atomic Energy Research
Institute, Sinjeong, Jeongeup, Jeonbuk, Korea.
(4)Department of Agricultural Life Science, Kangwon National University,
Chuncheon, Korea.
(5)Department of Biology, Laurentian University, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Molecular Bioscience, Kangwon National University, Chuncheon,
Korea.

Chloroplast (cp) genomes of Lilium amabile, L. callosum, L. lancifolium, and L.
philadelphicum were fully sequenced. Using these four novel cp genome sequences
and five other previously sequenced cp genomes, features of the cp genomes were
characterized in detail among species in the genus Lilium and other related
genera in the order Liliales. The lengths and nucleotide composition showed
little variation. No structural variation was found among the cp genomes in
Liliales. Gene contents were conserved among four newly sequenced cp genome in
Lilium species, the only differences being in two pseudogenes. We identified 112 
genes in 13 functional categories, 18 of which carried introns that were
conserved among the species in Liliales. There were 16-21 SSR loci (>12 bp, >3
repeats) in the cp genomes in Lilium and the genomic locations of these loci were
highly variable among the species. Average mutations were 15 SNPs per 1kb and 5
indels per 1kb, respectively, in the cp genomes of the newly sequenced four
Lilium species. Phylogenetic classifications revealed some discrepancies between 
trees based on the cp genomes and previous classifications based on the
morphology and geographic distributions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0186788 
PMID: 29065181 


2. Nucleic Acids Res. 2017 Oct 20. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkx972. [Epub ahead of print]

dreamBase: DNA modification, RNA regulation and protein binding of expressed
pseudogenes in human health and disease.

Zheng LL(1), Zhou KR(1), Liu S(1), Zhang DY(1), Wang ZL(1), Chen ZR(1), Yang
JH(1), Qu LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Gene Engineering of the Ministry of Education, State Key
Laboratory for Biocontrol, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510275, PR China.

Although thousands of pseudogenes have been annotated in the human genome, their 
transcriptional regulation, expression profiles and functional mechanisms are
largely unknown. In this study, we developed dreamBase
(http://rna.sysu.edu.cn/dreamBase) to facilitate the investigation of DNA
modification, RNA regulation and protein binding of potential expressed
pseudogenes from multidimensional high-throughput sequencing data. Based on ∼5500
ChIP-seq and DNase-seq datasets, we identified genome-wide binding profiles of
various transcription-associated factors around pseudogene loci. By integrating
∼18 000 RNA-seq data, we analysed the expression profiles of pseudogenes and
explored their co-expression patterns with their parent genes in 32 cancers and
31 normal tissues. By combining microRNA binding sites, we demonstrated complex
post-transcriptional regulation networks involving 275 microRNAs and 1201
pseudogenes. We generated ceRNA networks to illustrate the crosstalk between
pseudogenes and their parent genes through competitive binding of microRNAs. In
addition, we studied transcriptome-wide interactions between RNA binding proteins
(RBPs) and pseudogenes based on 458 CLIP-seq datasets. In conjunction with
epitranscriptome sequencing data, we also mapped 1039 RNA modification sites onto
635 pseudogenes. This database will provide insights into the transcriptional
regulation, expression, functions and mechanisms of pseudogenes as well as their 
roles in biological processes and diseases.

© The Author(s) 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkx972 
PMID: 29059382 


3. BMC Genomics. 2017 Oct 18;18(1):804. doi: 10.1186/s12864-017-4178-4.

A Support Vector Machine based method to distinguish long non-coding RNAs from
protein coding transcripts.

Schneider HW(1), Raiol T(2), Brigido MM(3), Walter MEMT(4), Stadler PF(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Brasilia, ICC Central, Instituto
de Ciências Exatas, Campus Universitario Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, CEP:
70910-900, Brasilia, Brazil. hugowschneider@gmail.com.
(2)Gerência Regional de Brasilia (GEREB), Oswaldo Cruz Foundation (Fiocruz), Av. 
L3 Norte, Campus Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Gleba A, Asa Norte, CEP: 70910-900,
Brasília, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, University of Brasilia, Instituto de Ciencias
Biologicas, Campus Universitario Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, CEP: 70910-900,
Brasilia, Brazil.
(4)Department of Computer Science, University of Brasilia, ICC Central, Instituto
de Ciências Exatas, Campus Universitario Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, CEP:
70910-900, Brasilia, Brazil.
(5)Bioinformatics Group, Department of Computer Science and Interdisciplinary
Center for Bioinformatics, University of Leipzig, Hartelstrasse 16-18, Leipzig,
D-04107, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, a rapidly increasing number of RNA transcripts has
been generated by thousands of sequencing projects around the world, creating
enormous volumes of transcript data to be analyzed. An important problem to be
addressed when analyzing this data is distinguishing between long non-coding RNAs
(lncRNAs) and protein coding transcripts (PCTs). Thus, we present a Support
Vector Machine (SVM) based method to distinguish lncRNAs from PCTs, using
features based on frequencies of nucleotide patterns and ORF lengths, in
transcripts.
METHODS: The proposed method is based on SVM and uses the first ORF relative
length and frequencies of nucleotide patterns selected by PCA as features. FASTA 
files were used as input to calculate all possible features. These features were 
divided in two sets: (i) 336 frequencies of nucleotide patterns; and (ii) 4
features derived from ORFs. PCA were applied to the first set to identify 6
groups of frequencies that could most contribute to the distinction. Twenty-four 
experiments using the 6 groups from the first set and the features from the
second set where built to create the best model to distinguish lncRNAs from PCTs.
RESULTS: This method was trained and tested with human (Homo sapiens), mouse (Mus
musculus) and zebrafish (Danio rerio) data, achieving 98.21%, 98.03% and 96.09%, 
accuracy, respectively. Our method was compared to other tools available in the
literature (CPAT, CPC, iSeeRNA, lncRNApred, lncRScan-SVM and FEELnc), and showed 
an improvement in accuracy by ≈3.00%. In addition, to validate our model, the
mouse data was classified with the human model, and vice-versa, achieving ≈97.80%
accuracy in both cases, showing that the model is not overfit. The SVM models
were validated with data from rat (Rattus norvegicus), pig (Sus scrofa) and fruit
fly (Drosophila melanogaster), and obtained more than 84.00% accuracy in all
these organisms. Our results also showed that 81.2% of human pseudogenes and
91.7% of mouse pseudogenes were classified as non-coding. Moreover, our method
was capable of re-annotating two uncharacterized sequences of Swiss-Prot database
with high probability of being lncRNAs. Finally, in order to use the method to
annotate transcripts derived from RNA-seq, previously identified lncRNAs of
human, gorilla (Gorilla gorilla) and rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) were
analyzed, having successfully classified 98.62%, 80.8% and 91.9%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The SVM method proposed in this work presents high performance to
distinguish lncRNAs from PCTs, as shown in the results. To build the model,
besides using features known in the literature regarding ORFs, we used PCA to
identify features among nucleotide pattern frequencies that contribute the most
in distinguishing lncRNAs from PCTs, in reference data sets. Interestingly,
models created with two evolutionary distant species could distinguish lncRNAs of
even more distant species.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-017-4178-4 
PMID: 29047334 


